Improved Data Transmission Modes section plus added best practices for live streaming and file transmission use cases (#89)
Haivision/srt-rfc: draft-sharabayko-mops-srt.md

### ACK (Acknowledgment) {#ctrl-pkt-ack}

Acknowledgment (ACK) control packets are used to provide the delivery status of data packets.

> By acknowledgement reception of data packets up to the acknowledged packet sequence number,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By acknowledging the reception of data packets up to the acknowledged packet sequence number,
```

The sender receiving this type of control packet must unblock any sending operation in progress.

> **NOTE**: This control packet is only used if the file transfer congestion control ({{fileCC}}) is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE**: This control packet is only used if file transfer congestion control ({{fileCC}}) is enabled.
```

set to 1. Thus, a PP equal to "11b" indicates a packet that forms the whole message.
A PP equal to "00b" indicates a packet that belongs to the inner part of the message.

The concept of the message in SRT comes from UDT {{GHG04b}}. In this mode, a single 
sending instruction passes exactly one piece of data that has boundaries (a message). 

> This message may span across multiple UDP packets and multiple SRT data packets. The 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This message may span multiple UDP packets and multiple SRT data packets. The 
```

value of TsbpdDelay is 3-4 times RTT.

It is worth noting that TsbpdDelay limits the number of packet retransmissions to a certain extent

> making impossible to retransmit packets endlessly. This is important for the case of live streaming ({{data-transmission-modes}}, {{live-streaming-use-case}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
making it impossible to retransmit packets endlessly. This is important for the case of live streaming ({{data-transmission-modes}}, {{live-streaming-use-case}}).
```

  delivery of a packet. However, in this use case the Order Flag has to be ignored
  by the receiver. As TSBPD is enabled, the receiver will still deliver
  packets in order, but based on the timestamps. In the case of a
  packet arriving too late and skipped by the TLPKTDROP mechanism, the
  order of delivery is still maintained except for potential sequence
  discontinuity.

  This method has grown historically and is the current common standard
  for live streaming across different SRT implementations. A change or
  variation of the settings will break compatibility between two parties.

This combination of settings allows live streaming with a constant latency ({{srt-latency}}). The receiving end will not "fall behind" in time by waiting for missing packets. However, data integrity might not be ensured if packets or retransmitted packets do not arrive within the expected time frame. Audio or video interruption can occur, but the overall latency is maintained and does not increase over time whenever packets are missing.

## File Transmission {#file-transmission-use-case}

This section describes the use case of file transmission and provides configuration examples.

> The usage of both message and buffer modes ({{data-transmission-modes}}) is possible in this case. For both modes, Timestamp-Based Packet Delivery (TSBPD) ({{tsbpd}}) and Too-Late Packet Drop (TLPKTDROP) ({{too-late-packet-drop}}) mechanisms must be turned off, while congestion control must be set to "file transfer congestion control" (FileCC) ({{fileCC}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The usage of both message and buffer modes ({{data-transmission-modes}}) is possible in this case. For both modes, Timestamp-Based Packet Delivery (TSBPD) ({{tsbpd}}) and Too-Late Packet Drop (TLPKTDROP) ({{too-late-packet-drop}}) mechanisms must be turned off, while file transfer congestion control (FileCC) ({{fileCC}) must be enabled.
```

PktSeqNo is the value of the Packet Sequence Number field of the SRT data packet.

# Best Practices and Configuration Tips for Data Transmission via SRT {#best-practices}

## Live Streaming Use Case {#live-streaming-use-case}

> This section describes real world examples of live audio/video streaming and the current consensus maintaining the compatibility between SRT implementations by different vendors. It is meant as a guidance for developers to write applications compatible with existing SRT implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes real world examples of live audio/video streaming and the current consensus on maintaining the compatibility between SRT implementations by different vendors. It is meant as guidance for developers to write applications compatible with existing SRT implementations.
```

The term "live streaming" refers to MPEG-TS style continuous data transmission with latency management. Live streaming based on segmentation and transmission of files like in HLS protocol {{RFC8216}} is not part of this use case.

> The default SRT data transmission mode for continuous live streaming is message mode ({{transmission-mode-msg}}) with certain settings applied and described below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default SRT data transmission mode for continuous live streaming is message mode ({{transmission-mode-msg}}) with certain settings applied as described below:
```

> - Only data packets with their PP field set to "11b" are allowed, meaning a single data packet forms exactly one message ({{data-pkt}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Only data packets with their Packet Position Flag (PP) field set to "11b" are allowed, meaning a single data packet forms exactly one message ({{data-pkt}}).
```

- Timestamp-Based Packet Delivery (TSBPD) ({{tsbpd}}) and Too-Late Packet Drop
  (TLPKTDROP) ({{too-late-packet-drop}}) mechanisms must be enabled.

- Live congestion control (LiveCC) ({{liveCC}}) must be used.

- The Order Flag ({{data-pkt}}) needs special attention. In the case
  of live streaming, it is set to 0 allowing out of order
  delivery of a packet. However, in this use case the Order Flag has to be ignored
  by the receiver. As TSBPD is enabled, the receiver will still deliver
  packets in order, but based on the timestamps. In the case of a

>   packet arriving too late and skipped by TLPKTDROP mechanism, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  packet arriving too late and skipped by the TLPKTDROP mechanism, the
```

  order of delivery is still maintained except for potential sequence
  discontinuity.

  This method has grown historically and is the current common standard
  for live streaming across different SRT implementations. A change or
  variation of the settings will break compatibility between two parties.

> This combination of settings allows live streaming with a constant latency ({{srt-latency}}). The receiving end will not "fall behind" in time by waiting for missing packets. However, the data integrity might not be ensured, if packets or retransmitted packets do not arrive within the expected time frame. Audio or video interruption can occur, but the overall latency is maintained and does not grow up over time whenever packets are missing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This combination of settings allows live streaming with a constant latency ({{srt-latency}}). The receiving end will not "fall behind" in time by waiting for missing packets. However, data integrity might not be ensured if packets or retransmitted packets do not arrive within the expected time frame. Audio or video interruption can occur, but the overall latency is maintained and does not increase over time whenever packets are missing.
```

## File Transmission Use Case {#file-transmission-use-case}

> This section describes the use case of file transmission as well as provides configuration examples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section describes the use case of file transmission and provides configuration examples.
```

> The usage of both message and buffer modes ({{data-transmission-modes}}) is possible in this case. For both modes, Timestamp-Based Packet Delivery (TSBPD) ({{tsbpd}}) and Too-Late Packet Drop (TLPKTDROP) ({{too-late-packet-drop}}) mechanisms must be turned off while congestion control should be set to file transfer congestion control (FileCC) ({{fileCC}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The usage of both message and buffer modes ({{data-transmission-modes}}) is possible in this case. For both modes, Timestamp-Based Packet Delivery (TSBPD) ({{tsbpd}}) and Too-Late Packet Drop (TLPKTDROP) ({{too-late-packet-drop}}) mechanisms must be turned off, while congestion control must be set to "file transfer congestion control" (FileCC) ({{fileCC}).
```

Author: @stevomatthews Why do we put "file transfer congestion control" in quotation marks here? 

There are several places in the document where I refer to "file transfer congestion control". Could you please take a look whether quotation marks are required somewhere else?

The same question for "live congestion control" or LiveCC.

Reviewer: I put the quotation marks here to indicate that file transfer congestion control is a specific mechanism (just T and TS are — these are written with initial caps, which makes it clear). On line 2243, FileCC is described:

Author: Yes, I've followed your suggestion and decided to use initial caps for both live congestion control and file transfer congestion control. I think we can spend some time and see whether there is a need for using initial capital letters for other terms, but during the next RFC iteration.

> When TSBPD is disabled, each packet gets the timestamp at the time it is sent by the SRT sender. A packet being sent for the first time will have different timestamp than a corresponding retransmitted packet. In contrast to the live streaming case, the timing of packets' delivery, when sending files, is not critical. The most important thing is data integrity. Therefore TLPKTDROP mechanism must be disabled in this case. No data is allowed to be dropped, because this will result in corrupted files with missing data. The retransmission of missing packets has to happen until the packets are finally acknowledged by the SRT receiver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When TSBPD is disabled, each packet gets timestamped with the time it is sent by the SRT sender. A packet being sent for the first time will have a timestamp different from that of a corresponding retransmitted packet. In contrast to the live streaming case, the timing of packets' delivery, when sending files, is not critical. The most important thing is data integrity. Therefore the TLPKTDROP mechanism must be disabled in this case. No data is allowed to be dropped, because this will result in corrupted files with missing data. The retransmission of missing packets has to happen until the packets are finally acknowledged by the SRT receiver.
```

> The file transfer congestion control (FileCC) will take care of using the available link bandwidth for maximum transfer speed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The file transfer congestion control (FileCC) mechanism will take care of using the available link bandwidth for maximum transfer speed.
```

### File Transmission in Buffer Mode {#file-transmission-use-case-buffer}

> The original UDT protocol {{GHG04b}} used buffer mode ({{transmission-mode-buffer}}) to send files and the same is possible in SRT. The mode was designed to transmit one file per connection. For a single file transmission, a socket is opened, a file is transmitted and then the socket is closed. This procedure is repeated for each single file to follow as the receiver cannot distinguish between two files in a continuous data stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The original UDT protocol {{GHG04b}} used buffer mode ({{transmission-mode-buffer}}) to send files, and the same is possible in SRT. This mode was designed to transmit one file per connection. For a single file transmission, a socket is opened, a file is transmitted, and then the socket is closed. This procedure is repeated for each subsequent single file, as the receiver cannot distinguish between two files in a continuous data stream.
```

> The buffer mode is not suitable for the transmission of many small files since for every file a new connection has to be established. To initiate a new connection, at least two round-trip times (RTTs) for the handshake exchange are required ({{handshake-messages}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Buffer mode is not suitable for the transmission of many small files since for every file a new connection has to be established. To initiate a new connection, at least two round-trip times (RTTs) for the handshake exchange are required ({{handshake-messages}}).
```

> It is also important to note that the SRT protocol does not add any information to the data being transmitted. The file name or any auxiliary information can be declared separately by the sending application, e.g., in a form of Stream ID Extension Message ({{sec-hsext-streamid}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also important to note that the SRT protocol does not add any information to the data being transmitted. The file name or any auxiliary information can be declared separately by the sending application, e.g., in the form of a Stream ID Extension Message ({{sec-hsext-streamid}}).
```

### File Transmission in Message Mode

> If the message mode ({{transmission-mode-msg}}) is used for the file transmission, the application should either segment the file into several messages, or use one message per file. The size of an individual message plays an important role on the receiving side since the size of the receiver buffer should be large enough to store at least a single message entirely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If message mode ({{transmission-mode-msg}}) is used for the file transmission, the application should either segment the file into several messages, or use one message per file. The size of an individual message plays an important role on the receiving side since the size of the receiver buffer should be large enough to store at least a single message entirely.
```

> In the case of file transfer in message mode, the file name, segmentation rules or any auxiliary information can be specified separately by both sending and receiving applications. The SRT protocol does not provide the exact way to do it. This could be done, e.g., by means of setting the file name, etc., in the very first message of a message sequence followed by the file itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of file transfer in message mode, the file name, segmentation rules, or any auxiliary information can be specified separately by both sending and receiving applications. The SRT protocol does not provide a specific way of doing this. It could be done by setting the file name, etc., in the very first message of a message sequence, followed by the file itself.
```
